// HTML is hyper text markup language
it has HTML DOM ( tree like structure)
browser have the capacity to pass and render these DOM
browser traverse or render the web page-> 
html is the markup language and is used in the client side
css is the styling language and is used to style the webpage
html and css can only create static website , basically read heavy website ,No dynamic used
JavaScript is created to manipulate the DOM , to make our website alive, and basciclly to do User Interaction

Browsers have dno't capacity to understand javascript , It have some javascript engine callled javascript engine
These javascript engine converts JS Sourse Code -> Machine Code 
Chrome has JavaScript engine called V8 engine that help Google Chrome to understand Javascript language by converting JS Source Code to machine Code 
Mozilla FireFox has javascript engine called Spider Monkey that help mozilla to understand Javascript language by Converting JS Source Code to Machine Code 
Edge has Javascript engine known as Chakra , 
All these javascript engines help browsers to undertand jS code and JS code to be executed


HTML, CSS, JavaScript All are Client Side Languages. That helps us to do stuffs in the client side

In Internet Exproler time we are having cicle button and rendering took place in 1 Mini
SO, Today we are having DOM Manipulation , DOM reads all the functionality , every button, every single item, everything, DOM has.

After that all frameworks having motivation to lesser the time of rendering
Time of Rendering decrace after coming of JQuery, React Js
Now, only new dom creates on old dom, but in elair days any part of dom changes it takes enough time , and it is not good
Now, now those parts of DOM changes that are affected.
DOM1 -> DOM2 (All changes by reconcilation method changes very smothlly)

React is these for DOM Updation, No, new DOM is formed just just chanegs are done to actual dom by comparign with the virtual dom , 
which react have, But in eailer days all the features of dom changes to new 

ALL the website build using react and new framework , have very less loading time , 
less rendering time, beacuase the framework help it to change only the part of dom that needs to change , not all the aprts of the website

 ALL Client Side Languages & browsers made up of are HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Reactjs,


ALL The client deals with only browsers only, ALL interactions happns in client side 
BY The end of the React is just top in JS. It's Just the JS framework

ALl the Business logic written only on server side.

Browsers sends the http request, tcp request .. AND server serves the response , sends the response , .. ALL the communication standard in cliend side is known as REST API. 

Client through Browser sends the API to the Server where business logic , imp data is stored  like /gethjsvchjqs. and server will then sends the resonse to the client and the whole proces is done by REST API

When Different clients request something from server througth API. like /api/highlights. Then server will sends independent and completely solo response to each server.
These server side languages are like PHP, Ruby and Rails, Nodejs.
All these languages help to understand request and can make API's to send response.   

There are two types of rendering CSR, SSR Fast and loads fast , SEO blogs (to rank on top of page), 
for updation CSR is helpful, for static content SSR is helpful, for blogs SEO is helpful


API's are like functions that are written on server side , client or browsers can call these functions or API that performs the task.

earlier have 2 -Tier Architechture, Client, Server 
Now have 3- Tier Architechture -> Client browser, Server (where business logic is written), Storage or Database (where server stores it's data in forms of tables ),

3- Tier Architechture

client --call an APi --> server(API hits)--> Database(tabel of that data)
          Request->            After that it will Respond (Response)  <-
ReactJS          Node JS (Top of it Express JS used )     MongoDB 

MERN Stack -> MongoDb, Express, React JS , Node JS 

MongoDB is the NoSQL database, it does not have tables, it has collections which stores documents, Mentain the scema
MongoDB has local and cloud databases, for cloud Database we will use MongoDB Atlas, 

This MongoDB cloud connect MongoDB Atlas to local NodeJS Database using URL 
MongoDB has it's own cloud DB that is MongoDB Atlas

Bootstrap is for CSS (having predefined functions and logic that make easy to code and make code easy)
Same as Express is for Node JS ( Express JS is like full of libraries to make Node js easy to write and understand and fast)
Express is basically framework to Node JS.
Express easallh connects with mongodb , forming connections, 
MongoDB have Mongooes, same b/w Nodejs and Mongodb have ORM's and ODM's , express help in making connects easly by connecting with these ORM's using python code very easilly.
With Express we can connect with local host 8000, using 1 line only , It makes our life easier\
import express -> 
const express= require("express");
having alot of Routes that helps in better connections
app.get("/foods",foodControllers.findALl);
This calling is known as MVC Architecture 

GITHUB(Version Control Management System)
GIT is inside github . Git allows developers to work on single file apart from differnt locstion, differnt systems, git is tool used by many companies

Repo is any activity or folders of files inside the system.
1. Step -> We can clone a repo in our system
 Clone is just to take all the files from repository to your local
JUST write 
git clone URL  --> cd any file -> ls to find all the list inside it

main line branch of any company --> 
best practice is to make your own branch , add changes to it only, and if that will confirm by senior developer then the code goes into production.

//?  to make new file in folder-->  git init my-repo
cd name     // cd my-repo 
make changes
showing all the changes -> Git status will give you the status of all the changes 
adding the added part -> Git add filename. It will stage your changes
snapshot --> Git commit is taking a snapshot of this particular time. can show all commit in github
final step -> git push origin master/main/any other branch
to checkout branch -> git branch
to add new branch  -> git branch newbranch
to checkout newbranch --> git checkout newbranch

to come out from that file --> cd..


Jquery is also javascript library that helps to improve JS code 
but  react is so much helpful like it is compositive, declarative in nature, react is so much good it fast the javascript code right 